README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Karthik K</h1>

<p align="center">
  <em>Data Scientist</em>
</p>

<!-- Badges / Quick Links -->
<p align="left">
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/karthik-k-a55468276/" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-Karthik K-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin" />
  </a>
  
</p>

## 🌐 Portfolio
<p align="left">
  <a href="https://karthik-k11.github.io/Portfolio/" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Portfolio-Karthik%20K-purple?style=for-the-badge&logo=github" />
  </a>
</p>

---

## 🙋‍♂️ About Me:

- 🧑‍💻 Currently working as a **Data scientist and AI/ML Intern at Analogica Software Development**, Bengaluru.
- 📚 Pursuing **MCA** with a strong focus on Artificial Intelligence and Data Science.
- ⚙️ Exploring areas like **Building ML models**, **Flask Web Apps**, **EDA** and **DSA**.
- 🧠 Passionate about **AI-driven automation**, **data analytics**, and **innovative software projects**.
- 🤝 Open to collaborating on **Python, SQL, Machine Learning**, and **Computer Vision** projects.
- 📫 Reach me at: [karthikk1162@gmail.com](mailto:karthikk1162@gmail.com)

## 🚀 Languages and Tools:

<p align="left">
  <!-- Programming Languages -->
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=python,cpp,java,javascript" />
  
  <!-- Web Development -->
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=html,css,flask,django,fastapi" />

  <!-- Databases -->
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=mysql,sqlite" />

  <!-- Cloud & Deployment -->
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=aws,azure,gcp,docker" />

  <!-- Tools -->
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=git,github,vscode,postman" />

  <!-- ML & Data Science -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Pandas-150458.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=pandas&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/NumPy-013243.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=numpy&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Matplotlib-003366.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=plotly&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Seaborn-2E4C6D.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/scikit--learn-F7931E.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=scikit-learn&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TensorFlow-FF6F00.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=tensorflow&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-EE4C2C.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenCV-5C3EE8.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=opencv&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Jupyter-F37626.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=jupyter&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Keras-D00000.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=keras&logoColor=white" />

  </p>
  
  ---

## 🚀 Major Project  

### 📚 AI-Driven Library Visitor Log  
A Flask + SQLite-based system designed to automate and digitize student registration in libraries.  
Key Features:  
- OCR-based ID card reader (Tesseract + OpenCV).  
- Automatic extraction of Name, Reg No, and Department.  
- Local database (SQLite) for storing visitor logs.  
- Dashboard to display recent entries and manage data.  

🔗 [View Repository](https://github.com/karthik-k11/AI-Driven-Library-Visitor-Log)  

---

## 📂 Other Projects  
I’m also working on several other projects across domains like **Machine Learning, Data Science, and AI applications**.  
You can explore them in my [repositories section](https://github.com/karthik-k11?tab=repositories).  

## 📜 Certifications  

- **Data Science with Python** – Certisured (March 2025)  
- **Machine Learning** – IBM  
- **Java Programming (12 Weeks)** – NPTEL  
- **Data Analytics and Visualization** – Accenture

 ---

<div align="center">
  💡 <i>“What we want is a machine that can learn from experience.”</i>
  <br>
  <span style="display: block; text-align: right; margin-right: 18%;">— Alan Turing</span>
</div>

Commit message:

Revise collaboration topics and project details
Updated collaboration interests and project descriptions.

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Karthik K</h1>

<p align="center">
  <em>Data Scientist</em>
</p>

<!-- Badges / Quick Links -->
<p align="left">
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/karthik-k-a55468276/" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-Karthik K-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin" />
  </a>
  
</p>

## 🌐 Portfolio
<p align="left">
  <a href="https://karthik-k11.github.io/Portfolio/" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Portfolio-Karthik%20K-purple?style=for-the-badge&logo=github" />
  </a>
</p>

---

## 🙋‍♂️ About Me:

- 🧑‍💻 Currently working as a **Data scientist and AI/ML Intern at Analogica Software Development**, Bengaluru.
- 📚 Pursuing **MCA** with a strong focus on Artificial Intelligence and Data Science.
- ⚙️ Exploring areas like **Building ML models**, **Flask Web Apps**, **EDA** and **DSA**.
- 🧠 Passionate about **AI-driven automation**, **data analytics**, and **innovative software projects**.
- 🤝 Open to collaborating on **Python, Agentic AI, SQL, Machine Learning**, and **Computer Vision** projects.
- 📫 Reach me at: [karthikk1162@gmail.com](mailto:karthikk1162@gmail.com)

## 🚀 Languages and Tools:

<p align="left">
  <!-- Programming Languages -->
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=python,cpp,java,javascript" />
  
  <!-- Web Development -->
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=html,css,flask,django,fastapi" />

  <!-- Databases -->
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=mysql,sqlite" />

  <!-- Cloud & Deployment -->
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=aws,azure,gcp,docker" />

  <!-- Tools -->
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=git,github,vscode,postman" />

  <!-- ML & Data Science -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Pandas-150458.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=pandas&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/NumPy-013243.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=numpy&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Matplotlib-003366.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=plotly&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Seaborn-2E4C6D.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/scikit--learn-F7931E.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=scikit-learn&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TensorFlow-FF6F00.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=tensorflow&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-EE4C2C.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenCV-5C3EE8.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=opencv&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Jupyter-F37626.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=jupyter&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Keras-D00000.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=keras&logoColor=white" />

  </p>
  
  ---

### 🧠 RAG Knowledge Engine
A Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) system engineered to provide accurate, source-backed answers from custom datasets.

**Key Technical Implementations:**
- **LangChain Orchestration:** Utilized the **LangChain** framework to construct a robust retrieval pipeline connecting **Google Gemini 1.5 Flash** with custom data sources.
- **Vector Retrieval System:** Integrated **ChromaDB** (Vector Store) and **HuggingFace Embeddings** to enable high-precision search based on document meaning.
- **Explainable AI:** Developed a transparent **citation mechanism** that tracks and displays the exact source document and page number for every answer.
- **Secure Data Handling:** Implemented ephemeral (temporary) file processing logic to ensure user data privacy during document ingestion.

🔗 [View Repository](https://github.com/karthik-k11/RAG-Chatbot-Project)
---

## 📂 Other Projects  
I’m also working on several other projects across domains like **Machine Learning, Data Science, and AI applications**.  
You can explore them in my [repositories section](https://github.com/karthik-k11?tab=repositories).  

## 📜 Certifications  

- **Data Science with Python** – Certisured (March 2025)  
- **Machine Learning** – IBM  
- **Java Programming (12 Weeks)** – NPTEL  
- **Data Analytics and Visualization** – Accenture

 ---

<div align="center">
  💡 <i>“What we want is a machine that can learn from experience.”</i>
  <br>
  <span style="display: block; text-align: right; margin-right: 18%;">— Alan Turing</span>
</div>
